docs/api/notification.md, before:

# Notification

> Create OS desktop notifications

Process: [Main](../glossary.md#main-process)

## Using in the renderer process

If you want to show Notifications from a renderer process you should use the [HTML5 Notification API](../tutorial/notifications.md)

## Class: Notification

> Create OS desktop notifications

Process: [Main](../glossary.md#main-process)

`Notification` is an [EventEmitter][event-emitter].

It creates a new `Notification` with native properties as set by the `options`.

### Static Methods

The `Notification` class has the following static methods:

#### `Notification.isSupported()`

Returns `Boolean` - Whether or not desktop notifications are supported on the current system

### `new Notification([options])` _Experimental_

* `options` Object (optional)
  * `title` String - A title for the notification, which will be shown at the top of the notification window when it is shown.
  * `subtitle` String (optional) _macOS_ - A subtitle for the notification, which will be displayed below the title.
  * `body` String - The body text of the notification, which will be displayed below the title or subtitle.
  * `silent` Boolean (optional) - Whether or not to emit an OS notification noise when showing the notification.
  * `icon` (String | [NativeImage](native-image.md)) (optional) - An icon to use in the notification.
  * `hasReply` Boolean (optional) _macOS_ - Whether or not to add an inline reply option to the notification.
  * `replyPlaceholder` String (optional) _macOS_ - The placeholder to write in the inline reply input field.
  * `sound` String (optional) _macOS_ - The name of the sound file to play when the notification is shown.
  * `actions` [NotificationAction[]](structures/notification-action.md) (optional) _macOS_ - Actions to add to the notification. Please read the available actions and limitations in the `NotificationAction` documentation.
  * `closeButtonText` String (optional) _macOS_ - A custom title for the close button of an alert. An empty string will cause the default localized text to be used.

### Instance Events

Objects created with `new Notification` emit the following events:

**Note:** Some events are only available on specific operating systems and are
labeled as such.

#### Event: 'show'

Returns:

* `event` Event

Emitted when the notification is shown to the user, note this could be fired
multiple times as a notification can be shown multiple times through the
`show()` method.

#### Event: 'click'

Returns:

* `event` Event

Emitted when the notification is clicked by the user.

#### Event: 'close'

Returns:

* `event` Event

Emitted when the notification is closed by manual intervention from the user.

This event is not guaranteed to be emitted in all cases where the notification
is closed.

#### Event: 'reply' _macOS_

Returns:

* `event` Event
* `reply` String - The string the user entered into the inline reply field.

Emitted when the user clicks the "Reply" button on a notification with `hasReply: true`.

#### Event: 'action' _macOS_

Returns:

* `event` Event
* `index` Number - The index of the action that was activated.

### Instance Methods

Objects created with `new Notification` have the following instance methods:

#### `notification.show()`

Immediately shows the notification to the user, please note this means unlike the
HTML5 Notification implementation, instantiating a `new Notification` does
not immediately show it to the user, you need to call this method before the OS
will display it.

If the notification has been shown before, this method will dismiss the previously
shown notification and create a new one with identical properties.

#### `notification.close()`

Dismisses the notification.

### Instance Properties

#### `notification.title`

A `String` property representing the title of the notification.

#### `notification.subtitle`

A `String` property representing the subtitle of the notification.

#### `notification.body`

A `String` property representing the body of the notification.

#### `notification.replyPlaceholder`

A `String` property representing the reply placeholder of the notification.

#### `notification.sound`

A `String` property representing the sound of the notification.

#### `notification.closeButtonText`

A `String` property representing the close button text of the notification.

#### `notification.silent`

A `Boolean` property representing whether the notification is silent.

#### `notification.hasReply`

A `Boolean` property representing whether the notification has a reply action.

#### `notification.actions`

A [`NotificationAction[]`](structures/notification-action.md) property representing the actions of the notification.

### Playing Sounds

On macOS, you can specify the name of the sound you'd like to play when the
notification is shown. Any of the default sounds (under System Preferences >
Sound) can be used, in addition to custom sound files. Be sure that the sound
file is copied under the app bundle (e.g., `YourApp.app/Contents/Resources`),
or one of the following locations:

* `~/Library/Sounds`
* `/Library/Sounds`
* `/Network/Library/Sounds`
* `/System/Library/Sounds`

See the [`NSSound`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nssound) docs for more information.

[event-emitter]: https://nodejs.org/api/events.html#events_class_eventemitter

Commit message:

feat: set urgency on linux notifications

docs/api/notification.md, after:

# Notification

> Create OS desktop notifications

Process: [Main](../glossary.md#main-process)

## Using in the renderer process

If you want to show Notifications from a renderer process you should use the [HTML5 Notification API](../tutorial/notifications.md)

## Class: Notification

> Create OS desktop notifications

Process: [Main](../glossary.md#main-process)

`Notification` is an [EventEmitter][event-emitter].

It creates a new `Notification` with native properties as set by the `options`.

### Static Methods

The `Notification` class has the following static methods:

#### `Notification.isSupported()`

Returns `Boolean` - Whether or not desktop notifications are supported on the current system

### `new Notification([options])` _Experimental_

* `options` Object (optional)
  * `title` String - A title for the notification, which will be shown at the top of the notification window when it is shown.
  * `subtitle` String (optional) _macOS_ - A subtitle for the notification, which will be displayed below the title.
  * `body` String - The body text of the notification, which will be displayed below the title or subtitle.
  * `silent` Boolean (optional) - Whether or not to emit an OS notification noise when showing the notification.
  * `icon` (String | [NativeImage](native-image.md)) (optional) - An icon to use in the notification.
  * `hasReply` Boolean (optional) _macOS_ - Whether or not to add an inline reply option to the notification.
  * `replyPlaceholder` String (optional) _macOS_ - The placeholder to write in the inline reply input field.
  * `sound` String (optional) _macOS_ - The name of the sound file to play when the notification is shown.
  * `actions` [NotificationAction[]](structures/notification-action.md) (optional) _macOS_ - Actions to add to the notification. Please read the available actions and limitations in the `NotificationAction` documentation.
  * `closeButtonText` String (optional) _macOS_ - A custom title for the close button of an alert. An empty string will cause the default localized text to be used.

### Instance Events

Objects created with `new Notification` emit the following events:

**Note:** Some events are only available on specific operating systems and are
labeled as such.

#### Event: 'show'

Returns:

* `event` Event

Emitted when the notification is shown to the user, note this could be fired
multiple times as a notification can be shown multiple times through the
`show()` method.

#### Event: 'click'

Returns:

* `event` Event

Emitted when the notification is clicked by the user.

#### Event: 'close'

Returns:

* `event` Event

Emitted when the notification is closed by manual intervention from the user.

This event is not guaranteed to be emitted in all cases where the notification
is closed.

#### Event: 'reply' _macOS_

Returns:

* `event` Event
* `reply` String - The string the user entered into the inline reply field.

Emitted when the user clicks the "Reply" button on a notification with `hasReply: true`.

#### Event: 'action' _macOS_

Returns:

* `event` Event
* `index` Number - The index of the action that was activated.

### Instance Methods

Objects created with `new Notification` have the following instance methods:

#### `notification.show()`

Immediately shows the notification to the user, please note this means unlike the
HTML5 Notification implementation, instantiating a `new Notification` does
not immediately show it to the user, you need to call this method before the OS
will display it.

If the notification has been shown before, this method will dismiss the previously
shown notification and create a new one with identical properties.

#### `notification.close()`

Dismisses the notification.

### Instance Properties

#### `notification.title`

A `String` property representing the title of the notification.

#### `notification.subtitle`

A `String` property representing the subtitle of the notification.

#### `notification.body`

A `String` property representing the body of the notification.

#### `notification.replyPlaceholder`

A `String` property representing the reply placeholder of the notification.

#### `notification.sound`

A `String` property representing the sound of the notification.

#### `notification.closeButtonText`

A `String` property representing the close button text of the notification.

#### `notification.silent`

A `Boolean` property representing whether the notification is silent.

#### `notification.hasReply`

A `Boolean` property representing whether the notification has a reply action.

#### `notification.urgency` _Linux_

A `String` property representing the urgency level of the notification. Can be 'normal', 'critical', or 'low'.

Default is 'low' - see [NotifyUrgency](https://developer.gnome.org/libnotify/unstable/NotifyNotification.html#notify-notification-set-urgency) for more information.

#### `notification.actions`

A [`NotificationAction[]`](structures/notification-action.md) property representing the actions of the notification.

### Playing Sounds

On macOS, you can specify the name of the sound you'd like to play when the
notification is shown. Any of the default sounds (under System Preferences >
Sound) can be used, in addition to custom sound files. Be sure that the sound
file is copied under the app bundle (e.g., `YourApp.app/Contents/Resources`),
or one of the following locations:

* `~/Library/Sounds`
* `/Library/Sounds`
* `/Network/Library/Sounds`
* `/System/Library/Sounds`

See the [`NSSound`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nssound) docs for more information.

[event-emitter]: https://nodejs.org/api/events.html#events_class_eventemitter
